YF mikdad has spent 21 years in multiple
Israeli jails now 63 he walks with his
grandson who until earlier this week he
had never met on Monday Yousef was
released back into the Gaza Strip he
describes the moment after Israeli
forces removed his blindfold dropped him
off on a Dusty Street and told him to
start
walking I saw nothing but destruction
when was released I didn't even see
people except this Doctor Who found me
in the street and called my
family I was very emotional when I saw
them I cried because of those who were
killed and wounded and those living on
the streets because they have nothing
including my wife and
children we don't even have a tent to
live in my house is
destroyed youf is greeted by friends and
those who have come to pay their
respects some were not even born when
Israeli forces took him away more than
two decades ago he describes how jail
conditions had changed When The War
Began in
October the first or second day after
the war started the prisoners were
attacked and all their belongings were
confiscated televisions radios clothes
even the money we used to buy food from
the canteen with before the war there
were six to nine people in each cell but
they started putting 15 people in the
same
cell Yousef was meant to be released in
November but Israeli authorities told
him he had to stand the trial again no
lawyer was made available to him he was
sentenced to another 6 months and he
transferred to a different prison it was
there he met many men who had been
detained since the beginning of the
war they were in a miserable condition
they were handcuffed and the bones in
their hands were clearly visible their
skin on their backs had peeled they
crawled on the ground because they were
so weak they had no food they had no
water for washing them elv they had no
clothes some of them hadn't showered in
months the rule was that they were
beaten three times a day they were
forced to say and repeat the worst words
about themselves bad smells came from
their dirty bodies and wounds you
wouldn't believe they were human
beings youf daughter was 4 years old
when he went to jail he never saw her
again he was in NAA prison during
Ramadan when I was told my daughter her
four children and her husband had been
killed the last time I saw her she was 4
years old on the first day of Eid we
were beaten badly regardless of health
conditions or age we were all humiliated
that day deprived of food water clothes
and soap when the police officer told me
that I could go home I said I didn't
want to be released she asked why I told
her because the last time they said said
that they took me to another prison and
beat
me cases like this highlight the reality
of life in Gaza Palestinians released
from Israeli captivity are unable to
return to the life they once knew their
homes are no longer a safe haven their
family members and loved ones lost with
all their memories to hold on to hanim
Mahmud Al jazer from the central part of
the Gaza Strip Palestine
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from Al jazer